+++
title = "Accuracy and Precision of Social Relationship Indices"
date = "2021-05-07"
authors = ["A. Mielke", "L. Samuni"]
publication_types = ["2"]
publication = "bioRxiv, https://doi.org/10.1101/2021.04.25.441321"
publication_short = "bioRxiv, https://doi.org/10.1101/2021.04.25.441321"
abstract = "Combining interaction rates of different social behaviours into social relationship indices to represent
the structure of dyadic relationships on one underlying dimension is common practice in animal sociality
studies. However, the properties of these relationship indices are not well explored – mainly because,
for real-world social systems, the ‘true’ value of relationships is unobservable. Here, we use simulation
studies to estimate the accuracy and precision of three relationship indices: the Dyadic Composite
Sociality Index, the Composite Relationship Index, and the Dynamic Dyadic Sociality Index. We simulated
one year of social interactions for multiple groups of 25 individuals and 4 interaction types with different
properties, and tested the impact of different focal follow regimes, data densities and sampling
conditions on the representation of social relationships. Accuracy and precision of social relationship
indices were strongly driven by sample size, similar to simple interaction rates. Under the assumption
that there was a clear, one-dimensional relationship underlying interactions, and that different
interaction types constituting an index were highly correlated, indices indeed increased accuracy over
single interaction rates for small sample sizes. Including uninformative constituting behaviours (i.e.,
those not highly correlated with the underlying relationship dimension) reduced the accuracy of all
indices. The precision of each index (i.e., whether multiple simulated focal follow regimes achieve the
same dyadic values for the same data) was generally poor and was driven by the precision of the least
precise constituting behaviour, making them less precise than some single interaction rates. Our results
showed that social relationship indices do not remove the need to have sufficient data for each
individual constituting interaction type. Index quality was defined by the least accurate and precise
constituting interaction type. Indices might only be useful if all constituting interaction rates are highly
correlated and if there are clear indications that one dimension is sufficient to represent social
relationships in a group. © 2021 The Author(s)"
abstract_short = ""
image_preview = ""
selected = false
projects = []
tags = []
url_pdf = "/publication/2021-05-07_Indices.pdf"
url_preprint = "https://www.biorxiv.org/content/10.1101/2021.04.25.441321v1"
url_code = ""
url_dataset = ""
url_project = ""
url_slides = ""
url_video = ""
url_poster = ""
url_source = ""
math = true
highlight = true
[header]
image = ""
caption = ""
+++
